---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Asking Good Questions Will Heal You
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-09-06
labels:
  - Questions
  - Answers
  - StackOverflow
---


It is important to ask the right questions because asking for help to a Software Engineering problem is like going to a doctor to treat a disease. When going to the doctor it is important to describe your sickness accurately so your doctor doesn’t give you the wrong medicine for the wrong illness. If a patient inaccurately describes an illness to a doctor, the patient will dramatically worsen their own condition and cause all sorts of physical problems. Asking for coding help is the exact same, if a Software Engineering incorrectly takes his/her problem to the coding community, this Software Engineer will end up with very bad code. Bad questions can prolong the illness and suffering of the developer. Asking good questions will help save time, and alleviate pain. 

Here is an example of a good question “ https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51870069/how-do-i-shorten-this-boolean-expression”. This question is an example of a good question because it is clear, succinct and straight to the point. It clearly states the symptoms of the problem, provides sample code and states the goal at the end. The author also states what it wants and doesn’t want from the doctor, specifying what he/she needs in order to solve his/her problem. For example the author states “My goal here is to better understand how to construct the while loop's expression, not to solve the problem a different way.” Then he proceeds to ask “ How would you write it?”. Very simple and straight forward. His question is listed in the right category , has no grammatical errors and is organized into four statements. This allows people to quickly read, diagnose and solve his/her problem. 


Here is an example of a poor question that does not help the developer https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52218804/laravel-5-6-multi-auth-problems. Short and succinct questions are good but his/her question is too succinct and unhelpful. The descript consists of four sentences, “ I got the following code”, “It is giving me the following exception”,  “Here is a picture” and “I don’t get it, pls help”. Additionally, this person also provided multiple disorganized screenshots of his code that discourages people to not answer. His question lacks clarity and is unclear. He also included a bit of groveling for help. Unsurprisingly, no-one on stack overflow answered his question.




