---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Java-Script for Dummies Like Me and Possibly You
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-08-30
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---


Throughout my short career as an ICS student I have learned Java, and am just beginning to dive into C and Java-Script. In the short period that I have learned and used Java-Script I have realized that Java-script has several advantages and disadvantages from a the standpoint of a student. 
## Benefits of Learning Java-Script
For starters, Java-script is very student friendly. It is an easy language to learn compared to C and Java. To learn Java-Script one does not need to understand anything about memory allocation. It is a very versatile and dynamic language. Java-Script , being client based is very fast and does not have to contact a server to wait for an answer. This also means that your own server will be less stressed. The programming environment for Java-script is very intuitive also. Java-Script developers use browser based IDE’s like JS-Fiddle whereas Java developers download IDE’s like ECLIPSE that run on a server.
## Disadvantages to Using Java-Script
As dynamic and versatile as Java-Script is there are also many disadvantages to programming in java-script. One issue with programming in Java-Script is that it might not be supported by all browsers. The first thing that my professor mentioned about Java-script was that we need to be using Chrome browsers. This compatibility issue may be a problem. Downloading chrome is not a big deal however. Another problem with Java-Script is that Java-Script runs on the client side. It runs on someone else’s machine, unlike C and Java. If the user wants, he/she can disable your script. Because anyone can run Java-Script, anyone can read the code and reuse it.
## In conclusion
	From a non-technical standpoint, Java-Script developers get paid well according to statistics. Java-Script along with CSS, and HTML is used to create websites. If you want to be a web designer and nothing else, Java-Script is the language to learn. In conclusion the advantages and disadvantages are somewhat irrelevant. It all depends on the objective. C, Java, and Java-Script all excel in certain areas. No-one would design a webpage with C, but would with Java-Script. There are different tools for different jobs. Java-Script is a necessity for developing webpages. 
## Thoughts on "Athletic Software Engineering"
	I am currently learning Java-Script through a model called “Athletic Software Engineering” developed by Professor Phillip Johnson. “Athletic Software Engineering” is based on coding within a certain timeframe. The code has to be perfect, but the faster you finish the better. The benefits of learning through this model is that it forces people like me to think without noise. If you have 10 minutes to code a problem, you will need to solve the problem in a way that is as simple as possible. The other part of this learning model is repetition, being able to code a problem in a shorter timeframe with each try. This is beneficial for events like hackathons or job interviews. The different timeframes give students a rough idea of whether they are improving or not, to reevaluate and revise their thought process and improve upon it. If you know the material on a test you know it, taking too much time will not make you know it. Unlike writing an essay, taking more time does not necessarily imply better code. In fact, the longer the code, the higher the chance for errors and failed logic. In conclusion, “Athletic Software Engineering” is an elegant approach to whipping bad programmers into decent programmers.

