---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Are Coding Standards Important?
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-09-20
labels:
  - Engineering
---



## Coding Standards Are a Necessity

Coding Standards Are a Grammatical Necessity
I believe that coding standards do indeed help programmers learn a new language. Coding standards help the programmer write clean, clear, easy to maintain code. Writing a program is similar to writing an essay. When writing an essay, grammar is extremely important. Grammar is a set of structural rules that influences the composition of phrases and words. Grammatical errors can easily confuse and obscure meaning in an essay. It is possible to communicate meaning with grammatical errors but it just makes it harder for everyone. In coding, although coding standards do not directly affect the logic of the code, incorrect coding standards can obscure coding logic. Poorly formatted code is hard to debug, and maintain. Poorly formatted code is a distraction from the actual logic of the code. A paper may have perfect vocabulary , syntax and organization but if there are grammatical errors readers will get distracted by the errors. 

	
  Coding standards are especially helpful when learning a new language. When learning a new language programmers are constantly making mistakes and need to debug their code. Coding standards helps to simplify this process. With coding standards , errors when programming in a new language are clear and easy to fix. Coding standards not only help the programmer but also help other programmers debug code. Everyone manipulates code with their own logic, but coding standards make everything clear. Coding standards like ESLint will remind programmers to remember to use constants that were declared, and to use functions. When learning a new language these little tips make the process much smoother. 
  

  My first week working with the Inteliij IDE was very interesting. The only other IDE I have worked with is Eclipse. Inteliij is much better than Eclipse, Inteliij is very fancy. The green checkmarks are annoying at first but useful. Once I get use to it I will definitely appreciate it more. 
	
