---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: UI Frameworks Are a Must
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-10-04
labels:
  - Engineering
---


# UI Frameworks Are An Unspoken Necessity
UI frameworks may be complicated to learn but they are extremely useful as a development tool. The word framework suggests a frame that holds together code written by the user. UI framework lays the base groundwork for developers which the rest of the project can be built. Simple HTML and CSS is structureless, and aesthetically unpleasant. The developer could in theory spend a lot of time refining HTML and CSS to make the project look better but that is what frameworks are for. Frameworks can save designers and developers time and also help users and developers maintain their project easier. 

When building a project developers do not want to focus their energy on generic components and low value added tasks, instead they want to focus on implementing complicated business rules. For example, a framework will save a developer 2 or 3 days of time creating an authentication form and instead dedicate his or her time to more specific components. Building a program completely from scratch can be buggy and time consuming. It is usually unecessary to build an entire project from scratch. No developer is going to waste time on menile tasks. By cutting the hours developers have to spend through using a framework this will also save clients thousands and pump the project out easier. 

Frameworks are also extremely easy for developers and users to maintain. Frameworks are open source and applications developed using a framework are interoperable with market standards. Widely used frameworks also have a strong community behind it offering improvements. If any vulnerabilities occur many developers are available to jump it and fix it. If developers build from scratch they will be entirely on their own. Frameworks are cross compatible, flexible, and responsive, basically everything a developer needs in his/her project. 

The only limitation is that developers may not be able to find the perfect framework that fits the project they are working are but public frameworks are open source and anyone can modify bits of the code to suit their needs. Overall frameworks are more positive than negative. 
