---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Design Patterns Are Solutions But Not Really...
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-11-29
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - Design Patterns
---
When designing software developers often run into programming problems based on structure and design. 
Everyone has bugs but bugs are generally easy to fix with forums like stack overflow available.
Problems that are rooted in design are much more difficult to fix, it often requires developers to restructure their entire program in order to fix it.
Design patterns are simply generalized solutions to common design problems developers face when designing an app. 

There are two main uses of design patterns in software development. 
Design patterns provide a standard terminology for a specific scenario.
Design patterns are general purpose and can be used for any software program. 
Design patterns also help software developers learn software programming easily but helping developers avoid common pitfalls. 

There are 23 design patterns that can be classified into three categories: creational, structural, behavioral. 
Creational patterns help control object creation by creating objects in a manner suitable to the situation.
Basic object creation often results in unnecessary complexity. Structural patterns are concerned with class and object composition and also deals with inheritance.
Behavioral patterns are specifically concerned with effectively communicating between objects. 

Design patterns sound like a template for software assembly but it is not, in reality it is more of a tool for communication.
Design patterns aren’t exactly solutions but a means of describing an approach. 
Think of design patterns as a philosophical guide to help developers think about their programs. 
Developers do not need to follow this guide but it makes their work much easier as design patterns have been well tested by trial and error. 

In my short career as a computer science student I have unknowingly used several creational patterns under the guidance of my professors. One creational pattern I used is called the singleton design pattern. 
My application needed only one instance of an object but additionally lazy initialization are necessary. 
I was then told to make a class of the single instance object responsible for creation, initialization, access and enforcement. 
I then declared the instance as a private member and provided a public static member function that encapsulated all initialization code and provides access to the instance.
